README.md, before:

<p align="center">

  <h1 align="center">Drag Your GAN: Interactive Point-based Manipulation on the Generative Image Manifold</h1>
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://xingangpan.github.io/"><strong>Xingang Pan</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://ayushtewari.com/"><strong>Ayush Tewari</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://people.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~tleimkue/"><strong>Thomas Leimkühler</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://lingjie0206.github.io/"><strong>Lingjie Liu</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://www.meka.page/"><strong>Abhimitra Meka</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="http://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~theobalt/"><strong>Christian Theobalt</strong></a>
  </p>
  <h2 align="center">SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings</h2>
  <div align="center">
    <img src="DragGAN.gif", width="600">
  </div>

  <p align="center">
  <br>
    <a href="https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/"><img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-ee4c2c?logo=pytorch&logoColor=white"></a>
    <a href="https://twitter.com/XingangP"><img alt='Twitter' src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/XingangP?label=%40XingangP"></a>
    <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10973">
      <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Paper-PDF-green?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobeacrobatreader&logoWidth=20&logoColor=white&labelColor=66cc00&color=94DD15' alt='Paper PDF'>
    </a>
    <a href='https://vcai.mpi-inf.mpg.de/projects/DragGAN/'>
      <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/DragGAN-Page-orange?style=for-the-badge&logo=Google%20chrome&logoColor=white&labelColor=D35400' alt='Project Page'></a>
    <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1mey-IXPwQC_qSthI5hO-LTX7QL4ivtPh?usp=sharing"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"></a>
  </p>
</p>

## Web Demos

[![Open in OpenXLab](https://cdn-static.openxlab.org.cn/app-center/openxlab_app.svg)](https://openxlab.org.cn/apps/detail/XingangPan/DragGAN)

<p align="left">
  <a href="https://huggingface.co/spaces/radames/DragGan"><img alt="Huggingface" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-DragGAN-orange"></a>
</p>

## Requirements

If you have CUDA graphic card, please follow the requirements of [NVlabs/stylegan3](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3#requirements).  

The usual installation steps involve the following commands, they should set up the correct CUDA version and all the python packages

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate stylegan3
```

Then install the additional requirements

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Otherwise (for GPU acceleration on MacOS with Silicon Mac M1/M2, or just CPU) try the following:

```sh
cat environment.yml | \
  grep -v -E 'nvidia|cuda' > environment-no-nvidia.yml && \
    conda env create -f environment-no-nvidia.yml
conda activate stylegan3

# On MacOS
export PYTORCH_ENABLE_MPS_FALLBACK=1
```

## Run Gradio visualizer in Docker 

Provided docker image is based on NGC PyTorch repository. To quickly try out visualizer in Docker, run the following:  

```sh
# before you build the docker container, make sure you have cloned this repo, and downloaded the pretrained model by `python scripts/download_model.py`.
docker build . -t draggan:latest  
docker run -p 7860:7860 -v "$PWD":/workspace/src -it draggan:latest bash
# (Use GPU)if you want to utilize your Nvidia gpu to accelerate in docker, please add command tag `--gpus all`, like:
#   docker run --gpus all  -p 7860:7860 -v "$PWD":/workspace/src -it draggan:latest bash

cd src && python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --listen
```
Now you can open a shared link from Gradio (printed in the terminal console).   
Beware the Docker image takes about 25GB of disk space!

## Download pre-trained StyleGAN2 weights

To download pre-trained weights, simply run:

```
python scripts/download_model.py
```
If you want to try StyleGAN-Human and the Landscapes HQ (LHQ) dataset, please download weights from these links: [StyleGAN-Human](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dlFEHbu-WzQWJl7nBBZYcTyo000H9hVm/view?usp=sharing), [LHQ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16twEf0T9QINAEoMsWefoWiyhcTd-aiWc/view?usp=sharing), and put them under `./checkpoints`.

Feel free to try other pretrained StyleGAN.

## Run DragGAN GUI

To start the DragGAN GUI, simply run:
```sh
sh scripts/gui.sh
```
If you are using windows, you can run:
```
.\scripts\gui.bat
```

This GUI supports editing GAN-generated images. To edit a real image, you need to first perform GAN inversion using tools like [PTI](https://github.com/danielroich/PTI). Then load the new latent code and model weights to the GUI.

You can run DragGAN Gradio demo as well, this is universal for both windows and linux:
```sh
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py
```

## Feature Fusion for Background Preservation

We have implemented an improved masking mechanism that goes beyond simple loss-based constraints. The **Feature Fusion** feature explicitly blends initial image features with generated features in the StyleGAN2 synthesis network, resulting in better background preservation during dragging.

### How It Works

Instead of only penalizing changes in masked regions via reconstruction loss, feature fusion directly replaces background features at high-resolution layers (e.g., 256x256) during the generation process:

$$F_{out} = M \cdot F_{generated} + (1 - M) \cdot F_{initial}$$

Where $M$ is the mask (1 = movable area, 0 = fixed background).

### Usage

#### Command Line Options

**Gradio Version:**
```sh
# Enable feature fusion
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --fusion

# Disable feature fusion (default)
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --no-fusion

# Enable with custom fusion resolution
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --fusion --fusion-res 512
```

**GUI Version:**
```sh
# Enable feature fusion
python visualizer_drag.py --fusion

# Disable feature fusion (default)
python visualizer_drag.py --no-fusion

# Enable with custom fusion resolution
python visualizer_drag.py --fusion --fusion-res 512
```

#### GUI Controls

Both versions also provide UI controls:
- **Enable Feature Fusion**: Checkbox to toggle the feature
- **Fusion Resolution**: Select the resolution at which fusion is applied (32, 64, 128, 256, 512)

### Tips

1. First draw a mask using "Flexible area" to mark the regions you want to move
2. Enable Feature Fusion for better background preservation
3. Higher fusion resolution (e.g., 512) preserves more detail but may affect edit flexibility
4. Lower fusion resolution (e.g., 128) allows more natural blending but less precise preservation

## Acknowledgement

This code is developed based on [StyleGAN3](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3). Part of the code is borrowed from [StyleGAN-Human](https://github.com/stylegan-human/StyleGAN-Human).

(cheers to the community as well)
## License

The code related to the DragGAN algorithm is licensed under [CC-BY-NC](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).
However, most of this project are available under a separate license terms: all codes used or modified from [StyleGAN3](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3) is under the [Nvidia Source Code License](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).

Any form of use and derivative of this code must preserve the watermarking functionality showing "AI Generated".

## BibTeX

```bibtex
@inproceedings{pan2023draggan,
    title={Drag Your GAN: Interactive Point-based Manipulation on the Generative Image Manifold},
    author={Pan, Xingang and Tewari, Ayush, and Leimk{\"u}hler, Thomas and Liu, Lingjie and Meka, Abhimitra and Theobalt, Christian},
    booktitle = {ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings},
    year={2023}
}
```

Commit message:

feat: add feature fusion UI controls to Gradio visualizer

README.md, after:

<p align="center">

  <h1 align="center">Drag Your GAN: Interactive Point-based Manipulation on the Generative Image Manifold</h1>
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://xingangpan.github.io/"><strong>Xingang Pan</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://ayushtewari.com/"><strong>Ayush Tewari</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://people.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~tleimkue/"><strong>Thomas Leimkühler</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://lingjie0206.github.io/"><strong>Lingjie Liu</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="https://www.meka.page/"><strong>Abhimitra Meka</strong></a>
    ·
    <a href="http://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/~theobalt/"><strong>Christian Theobalt</strong></a>
  </p>
  <h2 align="center">SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings</h2>
  <div align="center">
    <img src="DragGAN.gif", width="600">
  </div>

  <p align="center">
  <br>
    <a href="https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/"><img alt="PyTorch" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PyTorch-ee4c2c?logo=pytorch&logoColor=white"></a>
    <a href="https://twitter.com/XingangP"><img alt='Twitter' src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/XingangP?label=%40XingangP"></a>
    <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10973">
      <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Paper-PDF-green?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobeacrobatreader&logoWidth=20&logoColor=white&labelColor=66cc00&color=94DD15' alt='Paper PDF'>
    </a>
    <a href='https://vcai.mpi-inf.mpg.de/projects/DragGAN/'>
      <img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/DragGAN-Page-orange?style=for-the-badge&logo=Google%20chrome&logoColor=white&labelColor=D35400' alt='Project Page'></a>
    <a href="https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1mey-IXPwQC_qSthI5hO-LTX7QL4ivtPh?usp=sharing"><img src="https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg" alt="Open In Colab"></a>
  </p>
</p>

## Web Demos

[![Open in OpenXLab](https://cdn-static.openxlab.org.cn/app-center/openxlab_app.svg)](https://openxlab.org.cn/apps/detail/XingangPan/DragGAN)

<p align="left">
  <a href="https://huggingface.co/spaces/radames/DragGan"><img alt="Huggingface" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-DragGAN-orange"></a>
</p>

## Requirements

If you have CUDA graphic card, please follow the requirements of [NVlabs/stylegan3](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3#requirements).  

The usual installation steps involve the following commands, they should set up the correct CUDA version and all the python packages

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
conda activate stylegan3
```

Then install the additional requirements

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Otherwise (for GPU acceleration on MacOS with Silicon Mac M1/M2, or just CPU) try the following:

```sh
cat environment.yml | \
  grep -v -E 'nvidia|cuda' > environment-no-nvidia.yml && \
    conda env create -f environment-no-nvidia.yml
conda activate stylegan3

# On MacOS
export PYTORCH_ENABLE_MPS_FALLBACK=1
```

## Run Gradio visualizer in Docker 

Provided docker image is based on NGC PyTorch repository. To quickly try out visualizer in Docker, run the following:  

```sh
# before you build the docker container, make sure you have cloned this repo, and downloaded the pretrained model by `python scripts/download_model.py`.
docker build . -t draggan:latest  
docker run -p 7860:7860 -v "$PWD":/workspace/src -it draggan:latest bash
# (Use GPU)if you want to utilize your Nvidia gpu to accelerate in docker, please add command tag `--gpus all`, like:
#   docker run --gpus all  -p 7860:7860 -v "$PWD":/workspace/src -it draggan:latest bash

cd src && python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --listen
```
Now you can open a shared link from Gradio (printed in the terminal console).   
Beware the Docker image takes about 25GB of disk space!

## Download pre-trained StyleGAN2 weights

To download pre-trained weights, simply run:

```
python scripts/download_model.py
```
If you want to try StyleGAN-Human and the Landscapes HQ (LHQ) dataset, please download weights from these links: [StyleGAN-Human](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dlFEHbu-WzQWJl7nBBZYcTyo000H9hVm/view?usp=sharing), [LHQ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16twEf0T9QINAEoMsWefoWiyhcTd-aiWc/view?usp=sharing), and put them under `./checkpoints`.

Feel free to try other pretrained StyleGAN.

## Run DragGAN GUI

To start the DragGAN GUI, simply run:
```sh
sh scripts/gui.sh
```
If you are using windows, you can run:
```
.\scripts\gui.bat
```

This GUI supports editing GAN-generated images. To edit a real image, you need to first perform GAN inversion using tools like [PTI](https://github.com/danielroich/PTI). Then load the new latent code and model weights to the GUI.

You can run DragGAN Gradio demo as well, this is universal for both windows and linux:
```sh
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py
```

## Feature Fusion for Background Preservation

We have implemented an improved masking mechanism that goes beyond simple loss-based constraints. The **Feature Fusion** feature explicitly blends initial image features with generated features in the StyleGAN2 synthesis network, resulting in better background preservation during dragging.

### How It Works

Instead of only penalizing changes in masked regions via reconstruction loss, feature fusion directly replaces background features at high-resolution layers (e.g., 256x256) during the generation process:

$$F_{out} = M \cdot F_{generated} + (1 - M) \cdot F_{initial}$$

Where $M$ is the mask (1 = movable area, 0 = fixed background).

### Usage

#### Command Line Options

**Gradio Version:**
```sh
# Enable feature fusion
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --fusion

# Disable feature fusion (default)
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --no-fusion

# Enable with custom fusion resolution
python visualizer_drag_gradio.py --fusion --fusion-res 512
```

**GUI Version:**
```sh
# Enable feature fusion
python visualizer_drag.py --fusion

# Disable feature fusion (default)
python visualizer_drag.py --no-fusion

# Enable with custom fusion resolution
python visualizer_drag.py --fusion --fusion-res 512
```

#### Web/GUI Controls

- **Gradio Version** (`visualizer_drag_gradio.py`): Feature Fusion checkbox and Fusion Resolution dropdown are available below the image area.
- **GUI Version** (`visualizer_drag.py`): Feature Fusion checkbox and Fusion Resolution input are available in the Mask section of the control panel.

### Tips

1. First draw a mask using "Flexible area" to mark the regions you want to move
2. Enable Feature Fusion for better background preservation
3. Higher fusion resolution (e.g., 512) preserves more detail but may affect edit flexibility
4. Lower fusion resolution (e.g., 128) allows more natural blending but less precise preservation

## Acknowledgement

This code is developed based on [StyleGAN3](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3). Part of the code is borrowed from [StyleGAN-Human](https://github.com/stylegan-human/StyleGAN-Human).

(cheers to the community as well)
## License

The code related to the DragGAN algorithm is licensed under [CC-BY-NC](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/).
However, most of this project are available under a separate license terms: all codes used or modified from [StyleGAN3](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3) is under the [Nvidia Source Code License](https://github.com/NVlabs/stylegan3/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).

Any form of use and derivative of this code must preserve the watermarking functionality showing "AI Generated".

## BibTeX

```bibtex
@inproceedings{pan2023draggan,
    title={Drag Your GAN: Interactive Point-based Manipulation on the Generative Image Manifold},
    author={Pan, Xingang and Tewari, Ayush, and Leimk{\"u}hler, Thomas and Liu, Lingjie and Meka, Abhimitra and Theobalt, Christian},
    booktitle = {ACM SIGGRAPH 2023 Conference Proceedings},
    year={2023}
}
```
